[Music]
the development and spread of railroads
across the United States brought a wave
of changes to American life during the
railroad boom thousands of jobs were
created new towns were born trade
increased transportation was faster and
the overall landscape of the nation
transformed but perhaps the most
interesting change of all is the
least-known the establishment of
Standard Time today we know that if it
is 628 a.m. in Los Angeles
it is 928 a.m. in New York 228 p.m. in
London 528 p.m. in Moscow and 10:28 p.m.
in Tokyo no matter where you are the
minute and second are the exact same but
before the railroads there was no need
for a national or global clock and each
town kept its own local time so when it
was 12 noon in Chicago it was 1207 p.m.
in Indianapolis 11:50 a.m. in st. Louis
and 11:27 a.m. in Omaha this worked just
fine when the only modes of travel were
horses or steamboats but it became
incredibly problematic when railroads
came along how can you keep a train
schedule when each town has its own time
and how do you prevent collisions or
accidents on the tracks
if train conductors are using different
clocks it doesn't really make sense to
leave a station at 12:14 p.m. travel for
22 minutes and arrive at 12:30 1:00 p.m.
in order to eliminate that confusion the
railroads of the united states and
canada instituted standard time zones on
November 18 1883 at noon it allowed the
railroad companies to operate more
effectively and reduce deadly accidents
the American public however was not so
quick to embrace this new change as many
cities continued to use their own local
time resistance was so strong that in
some towns clocks would show both the
local time and the railway time imagine
this conversation pardon me sir do you
have the time y-yes which do you need
it is 1213 local time and 1216 railway
time ultimately the logic of keeping a
Standard Time prevailed and the United
States government made time zones a
matter of law with the standard time act
on March 19 1918 since then there have
been numerous changes to the time zones
the concept of standard time has
remained but the United States was
actually not the first to develop
standard time the first company to
implement the use of standard time was
the Great Western Railway in 1840 in
Britain and by 1847 most British
railways were using Greenwich Mean Time
or GMT the British government made it
official on August 2nd 1880 with the
statutes or definition of time act but
while Britain may have been the first to
establish Standard Time it is Asia and
the islands of the South Pacific that
enjoy the first hour of each new day the
International Date Line passes through
the Pacific Ocean on the opposite side
of the earth from the Prime Meridian in
Greenwich where thanks to trains
Standard Time was first used trains have
evolved over the years and remain a
prominent form of transportation and
trade throughout the world and from the
New York City subways to the freight
trains traveling across the Great Plains
to the trolleys in San Francisco they
all know exactly what time it is and
thanks to them we do too
Oh